SPEAKER 1: Imposter syndrome.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah,
which is something
I think in our field of
work is talked about a lot,
it's brought up a lot, like, ah,
everybody around me is so good
and I feel like I'm
not actually that good.
Like you just said, like, you
say my low level knowledge is
better than yours,
but then again
I basically dropped out
of my Master's and I feel
like I failed that, as well.
So--
SPEAKER 1: Well, you did
a master's, though, right.
I didn't.
SPEAKER 2: No, I didn't.
I did my bachelors, and
dropped out of a master's.
SPEAKER 1: OK, but
any master's you did
is more master's than I did.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 2: I think I saw
you tweeting about this
and I was agreeing
with you a lot,
because you said there's
like a certain sense
that we talk about
it almost too much.
SPEAKER 1: Well, I feel
like it's a lot of--
it feels like people are
using it as a positive trait.
And I used to do the
same, like thinking, well,
it's a whole form
of modesty, right?
So you're saying like, I don't
feel good enough to be here.
You know, and maybe in some
ways other people seeing
that will go, oh, well, if that
person doesn't feel like they
deserve to be here, then I--
my feelings are
maybe fake, as well.
Maybe it's this
imposter syndrome thing.
But the thing that
got me thinking
is that if you
have that mindset,
and you encounter someone who--
may be whoever, they're new,
or their skills are
just in another area,
but they're struggling
with a particular thing,
I worry that if you kind of
really dig into that mindset
that you don't belong
when you see someone
who you could
subjectively sort of
say they know less than I do.
Then ergo, they deserve
even less to be here.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
SPEAKER 1: You know
and that kind of--
SPEAKER 2: With that
mindset you can put yourself
in a spot where you
actually will end up
not being encouraging for
someone who is just learning.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
Because the bad part
is it comes with,
"and I don't
deserve to be here."
It was a thread that went around
on Twitter, like a few months
ago now, I think, but
it was people saying,
hi, I have this high position
of authority, or this job,
and I can't do
something that might
be relatively basic to some.
And I actually I
felt that thread
had all of the benefits of,
like, so other people can say,
oh, well, maybe I should stop
worrying about what I know,
because--
but it didn't have that, "and
I don't deserve to be here."
SPEAKER 2: That's the bit.
It's not-- it
shouldn't be up to you
to decide if you deserve
to be at your workplace.
That's what the interview
process is for, that's
what your colleagues are for.
And I'm very grateful
that I have colleagues
who keep encouraging me and
all their other colleagues
that everybody is here
with a good reason
and has the right skill and--
SPEAKER 1: Absolutely.
SPEAKER 2: --and
since I keep learning
from basically all my
colleagues, everything is fine.
I think if we just stop
deducing ourselves,
well, we don't deserve
to be somewhere,
we'll be in a better
place mentally already.
SPEAKER 1: Absolutely.
And I think, yeah,
especially if you genuinely
don't think you belong, there's
definitely an encouragement
to kind of close yourself in.
To not be found out.
And not talk openly.
But on that Twitter
thread, what I
said was, like I use NDN
to look up APIs I designed.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, are you one of
the service worker designers.
SPEAKER 1: Oh, I don't
know if you know.
But someone replied to me,
went, does that actually
more mean that your
APIs are badly designed?
No.
It means I have the
memory of a human being,
like there's only so
much I can remember.
And especially if I
know I can look it up.
Because I have this worry
that if I have a finite amount
of space in my brain, right?
And if I push too much stuff in,
something else will fall out.
So like if I learn how
to do pointers in C,
then that might push out how
to breathe, or something.
SPEAKER 2: Many people have
died from just forgetting
to breathe in the past.
SPEAKER 1: C has
killed many people.
Learning C has
destroyed many lives.
But if I can look
it up easily then--
SPEAKER 2: And I think
that that's actually
really a good trait.
It's something that I
always thought about.
It could be like it you try to
minimize the amount that you
actually have to keep in
your head and delegate things
out to the things you can either
look up, or you can deduce.
Which is very
mathematical actually,
where you just
remember the axioms
and from there you
can go anywhere
you want in terms of knowledge.
If you really need to
learn something by heart,
it will happen automatically
because you have
to use it over and over anyway.
SPEAKER 1: Through real usage,
not just kind of because--
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, because I
keep using Flexbox, I now know
all the Flexbox properties.
SPEAKER 1: Right.
SPEAKER 2: I didn't sit
down and memorize them.
SPEAKER 1: Hang on.
Justify is the horizontal
one, if it's a row,
and a line item is the vertical?
SPEAKER 2: Here's
how I remember it.
You know how in Word or any
kind of text processing,
you have the justify button.
It's left justified,
right justified.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: So that
basically makes
text that flows just to
the right or to the left.
And Flexbox has--
SPEAKER 1: No way.
That's amazing.
Right.
OK.
So, justify is the
horizontal one, it's a row.
SPEAKER 2: And it moves the
elements in inline direction.
SPEAKER 1: That's amazing.
SPEAKER 2: And the align
is for the actual--
SPEAKER 1: We don't actually
need to film any more.
Like that-- that is--
the one, you know what?
You can stay.
SPEAKER 2: I made it!
SPEAKER 1: Based on that.
That's a piece of
knowledge I have failed
to grasp my entire career.
And I remember it
now because of that.
SPEAKER 2: Because
of the Word buttons.
SPEAKER 1: Because, yeah.
SPEAKER 2: When I
learned English,
I had often heard this
phrase, A for effort.
But I also often heard
people spelling their names
with like the NATO radio alpha.
They say, S for Sierra.
And for November.
SPEAKER 1: Right.
SPEAKER 2: And I was
like, A for effort?